and the word of the Lord came to me son
of man pose a riddle and speak a parable
to the house of Israel and say thus says
the Lord God a great Eagle with large
wings and long pinions full of feathers
of various colors came to Lebanon and
took from the cedar the highest branch
he cropped off its top most young twig
and carried it to a land of trade he set
it in a city of merchants then he took
some of the seed of the land and planted
it in a fertile field he placed it by
abundant waters and set it like a willow
tree and it grew and became a spreading
vine of low stature its branches turned
toward him but its roots were under it
so it became a vine brought forth
branches and put forth shoes but there
was another great Eagle with large wings
and many feathers and behold this vine
bent its roots toward him and stretched
its branches toward him from the garden
terrace where it had been planted that
he might water it it was planted in good
soil by many waters to bring forth
branches bear fruit and become a
majestic vine say thus says the Lord God
will it thrive
will he not pull up its roots cut off
its fruit and leave it to wither all of
its spring leaves will wither and no
great power or many people will be
needed to pluck it up by its roots
behold it is planted will it thrive will
it not utterly wither when the east wind
touches it it will wither in the garden
terrace where it grew say now to the
rebellious house do you not know what
these things mean
tell them indeed the king of Babylon
went to Jerusalem and took its king and
princes and led them with him to Babel
and he took the Kings offspring made a
covenant with him and put him under oath
he also took away the mighty of the land
that the kingdom might be brought low
and not lift itself up but that by
keeping his covenant it might stand but
he rebelled against him by sending his
ambassadors to Egypt that they might
give him horses and many people will he
prosper will he who does such things
escape can he break a covenant and still
be delivered as I live says the Lord God
surely in the place where the king
dwells who made him king whose oath he
despised and whose covenant he broke
with him in the midst of Babylon he
shall die nor will ferrel with his
mighty army and great company do
anything in the war when they heap up a
siege mount and build a wall to cut off
many persons since he despised the oath
by breaking the Covenant and in fact
gave his hand and still did all these
things he shall not escape
therefore thus says the Lord God as I
live
surely my oath which he despised and my
covenant which he broke I will
recompense on his own head I will spread
my net over him and he shall be taken in
my snare I will bring him to Babylon and
try him there for the treason which he
committed against me all his fugitives
with all his troops shall fall by the
sword and those who remain shall be
scattered to every wind and you shall
know that I the LORD have spoken thus
says the Lord God I will also take one
of the highest branches of the high
cedar and set it out I will crop off
from the top most of its young twigs a
tender one and will plant it on a high
and prominent mountain on the mountain
height of Israel I will plant it and it
will bring forth boughs and bear fruit
and be a majestic cedar under it will
draw birds of every sort in the shadow
of its branches they will dwell and all
the trees of the field shall know that I
the LORD have brought down the high tree
and exalted the low tree dried up the
green tree and made the dry tree
flourish I the LORD have spoken and have
done it
you